# Importance of Planktons
Even with their microscopic size, Planktons play an imperative role, especially in maintaining the life of our marine ecosystem. Present at the bottom of the food web, Planktons is derived from a Greek word, "Planktos"- which means "Drifter" (as that's exactly what they do), drifting all around the water bodies allowing various factors like water current and tide to determine their path. They are broadly classified into 2 different categories,  phytoplankton, which are plants, and zooplankton, which are animals. They are eventually the food source for fishes and other large species.

More than half of the earth's primary productivity is dependent on the Planktons and they are also the reason for controlling almost 50% of the carbon in our overall global carbon cycle. This makes their significance (maintaining their population) a very important agenda for sustaining life on earth. In one of the measures, to examine their population, Oregon State University collected millions of image data to help classify and better understand these organisms using the power of machine learning and its various tools. With the latest advancement of Machine learning and its related technology, classification of such large data has become substantially easy and less time-consuming.

In this project, using a subset of the large image data set we aim to build a model that can determine the class of a Plankton (out of more than 100 different categories) using the power of a convolutional neural network (CNN). Using the training dataset, which already has a labeled set of different images, we will build a model that can determine a new image (without any other context) into a defined category with a high value of accuracy and precision.
